Documentation: Http (#888)
zio/zio-http: docs/website/docs/v1.x/dsl/http/index.md

> #HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Http Domain
```

> HTTP is a functional domain to model Http apps using ZIO. It can work over any kind of request and response type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Http` is a functional domain that models Http apps using ZIO. It can work over any kind of input and output types.
```

> A `Http[-R, +E, -A, +B]` is essentially a function form `A` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], B]`. Whereas `HttpApp[-R, +E]` is a function from `Request` to `ZIO[R, E, Response]`. To start a zio-http server we need a `HttpApp[R, E]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Http[-R, +E, -A, +B]` models a function from `A` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], B]`. Whereas `HttpApp[-R, +E]` is a function from `Request` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], Response]`. ZIO HTTP server works on `HttpApp[R, E]`.
```

> There are several operators and constructors to model the application as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Http` domain provides several operators and constructors to model the application as per your use case.
```

> ##HTTP Constructors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## HTTP Constructors
```

> Here are some of the simple constructors to make useful Http applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are some of the constructors to make `HTTP` applications.
```

###Http.ok
Creates an HTTP app that always responds with a 200 status code.
```scala
  val app = Http.ok
```
###Http.fail()

> Creates an Http app that always fails with the given value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an Http app that always fails with the given error.
```

```scala
  val app = Http.fail(new Error("Error_Message"))
```
###Http.succeed ()

> Creates an Http that always returns the same response and never fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an Http that never fails and always returns the same output.
```

# HTTP Domain

`Http` is a functional domain that models Http apps using ZIO. It can work over any kind of input and output types.

A `Http[-R, +E, -A, +B]` models a function from `A` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], B]`. Whereas `HttpApp[-R, +E]` is a function
from `Request` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], Response]`. ZIO HTTP server works on `HttpApp[R, E]`.

`Http` domain provides several operators and constructors to model the application as per your use case.

## HTTP Constructors

> These are some constructors to make `HTTP` applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are some constructors to make HTTP applications.
```

### Http.ok

Creates an HTTP app that always responds with a 200 status code.

```scala
  val app = Http.ok
```

> ### Http.fail()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.fail
```

> Creates an `HTTP` app that always fails with the given error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an HTTP app that always fails with the given error.
```

```scala
  val app = Http.fail(new Error("Error_Message"))
```

> ### Http.succeed ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.succeed
```

> Creates an `HTTP` that always returns the same response and never fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an HTTP that always returns the same response and never fails.
```

```scala
  val app = Http.succeed(1)
```

> ### Http.text ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.text
```

> Creates an `HTTP` app that always responds with the same plain text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an HTTP app that always responds with the same plain text.
```

```scala
  val app = Http.text("Text Response")
```

Apart from these, you can also create an `HTTP` application from total and partial functions. These are some

> constructors to create `HTTP` applications from total as well as partial functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also create an HTTP application from total and partial functions. These are some constructors to create HTTP applications from the total as well as partial functions.
```

> ### Http.collect ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.collect
```

> Http.Collect() can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a `PartialFunction[A, B]`. In case an input is not defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Http.Collect` can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a `PartialFunction[A, B]`. In case an input is not defined
```

> for the partial function, the application will return a 404 error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the partial function, the application will return a None type error.
```

```scala
  val app: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
  case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  case Method.GET -> !! / "json" => Response.ok
}
```

> ### Http.collectZIO ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.collectZIO
```

> Http.CollectZIO() can be used to create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a partial function that returns a ZIO effect,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Http.CollectZIO` can be used to create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a partial function that returns a ZIO effect, This constructor is used when the output is effectful.
```

i.e `PartialFunction[A, ZIO[R, E, B]`.

```scala
  val app: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
  case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => ZIO[Response.ok]
}
```

> ### Http.fromFunction ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.fromFunction
```

> Http.fromFunction() can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a function `f: A=>B`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Http.fromFunction` can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a function `f: A=>B`.
```

```scala
  val app: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.fromFunction[Request](req => Response.text(req.url.path.toString))
```

> ### Http.fromFunctionZIO ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Http.fromFunctionZIO
```

> Http.fromFunctionZIO() can create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a function that returns a ZIO effect,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Http.fromFunctionZIO` can create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a function that returns a ZIO effect,
```

i.e `f: A => ZIO[R, E, B]`.

```scala
  val app: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.fromFunction[Request](req => ZIO(Response.text(req.url.path.toString)))
```

Apart from these constructors, many constructors are special cases of the constructors explained above. Some of them
directly create an `HttpApp[R,E]` were as others create normal `Http[R,E,A,B]`. Kindly check out the examples for more

> Http applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many more constructors in the `Http` Domain. 
Some for creating `HttpApp[R,E]` and remaining for creating `Http[R,E,A,B]`. Kindly check out the examples for more HTTP applications.
```
Please add a hyperlink for examples section

## Http Operators

`HTTP` operators are used to transforming one or more `HTTP` applications to create a new `HTTP` application. Here are a
few handy operators.

> ### map ()

Reviewer: remove paranthesis from function names and headings everywhere

Transforms the output of the `HTTP` app. Map takes a function `f: B=>C` to convert a `Http[R,E,A,B]` to `Http[R,E,A,C]`

```scala
  val app1 = Http.succeed("text")
val app2 = app1.map(s => s.length())
```

### flatmap ()

Create a new `Http[R1, E1, A1, C1]` from the output of a `Http[R,E,A,B]`, using a
function `f: B => Http[R1, E1, A1, C1]`.

```scala
  val app1 = Http.succeed("text1")
val app2 = app1.map(s => Http.succeed(s + " text2"))
```

### foldHttp ()

Folds over the `HTTP` app by taking in two functions one for failure and one for success respectively.

```scala
  val app1 = Http.succeed("text1")
val app2 = Http.succeed("text2")
val app3 = app1.foldHttp(e => Http.fail(e), s => Http.succeed(s), app2)
```

### defaultWith ()

> Combines two `HTTP` applications into one.

Reviewer: explain a bit more and talk about its alias `++` in this section

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
  case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
}
val app2: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
  case Method.GET -> !! / "json" => Response.ok
}
val app = app1 ++ app2
```

> ### andThen ()

Reviewer: explain a bit more and talk about its alias in this section

Pipes the output of one `HTTP` app into the other.

```scala
  val app1 = Http.fromFunction[Int](a => a + 1)
val app2 = Http.fromFunction[Int](b => b * 2)
val app = app1.andThen(app2)
```

> ### execute ()

Reviewer: remove this as its private to method

Reviewer: May be you can use this in the top to explain how Http is executed

Execute is a special method of `HTTP` that valuates the app and returns an `HExit` that can be resolved further.

```scala
  val app = Http.fromFunction[Int](a => a + 1)
val hExitValue = app.execute(1)
```

Apart from these, there are many more operators that let you transform an Http in specific ways.

## HttpAppSyntax

If the app is of type `Http[R, E, Request, Response]` i.e `HttpApp[R,E]`, there are some special operators available for
them. Here are few handy `HttpApp` operators.

### middleware ()

> Attaches the provided middleware to the `HttpApp`

Reviewer: named alias also it works on Http as well as HttpApp

# Http Domain

`Http` is a functional domain that models HTTP applications using ZIO. It can work over any kind of input and output
types.

> A `Http[-R, +E, -A, +B]` models a function from `A` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], B]`. Whereas `HttpApp[-R, +E]` is a function
> from `Request` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], Response]`. ZIO HTTP server works on `HttpApp[R, E]`. When a value of type `A` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Http[-R, +E, -A, +B]` models a function from `A` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], B]`. 
`HttpApp[-R, +E]` is a type alias for `Http[R, E, Request, Response]. 
ZIO HTTP server runs only `HttpApp[R, E]`, If you want to run any other `Http[R, E, A,B]` on ZIO HTTP server you need to convert it to `HttpApp[R, E]` using operators like `map`,`contramap`, `middleware`, etc. as explained in upcoming sections.
 When a value of type `A` is
```

  val app = app1 <<< (app2)
```

Apart from these, there are many more operators that let you transform an Http in specific ways.

## HttpAppSyntax

If the application is of type `Http[R, E, Request, Response]` i.e `HttpApp[R,E]`, there are some special operators
available for them. Here are few handy `HttpApp` operators.

### setMethod

Overwrites the method in the incoming request to the `HttpApp`

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  }
  val app = app1 setMethod (Method.POST)
```

### patch

Patches the response produced by the HTTP application using a `Patch`.

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  }
  val app = app1.patch(Patch.setStatus(Status.ACCEPTED))
```

### getBodyAsString

`getBodyAsString` extract the body of response as a string and make it the output type.

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  }
  val app: Http[Any, Throwable, Request, String] = app1.getBodyAsString

> ```

Reviewer: Add a section to cover Http to HttpApp using map, contramap, mapzio, contramapZIO, middleware etc.

```scala
  val app: Http[Any, Nothing, Request, Response] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => ZIO[Response.ok]
  }
```

### Http.fromFunction

Http.fromFunction can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a function `f: A=>B`.

```scala
  val app: Http[Any, Nothing, Request, Response] = Http.fromFunction[Request](req => Response.text(req.url.path.toString))
```

### Http.fromFunctionZIO

Http.fromFunctionZIO can create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a function that returns a ZIO effect,
i.e `f: A => ZIO[R, E, B]`.

```scala
  val app: Http[Any, Nothing, Request, Response] = Http.fromFunction[Request](req => ZIO(Response.text(req.url.path.toString)))
```

Apart from these constructors, there are many more constructors that are special cases of the ones explained above. Kindly check out the examples for more
HTTP applications.

## Http Operators

Http operators are used to transform one or more HTTP applications to create a new HTTP application. Here are a few
handy operators.

### map

Transforms the output of the HTTP application. Map takes a function `f: B=>C` to convert a `Http[R,E,A,B]`
to `Http[R,E,A,C]`

```scala

>   val app1 = Http.succeed("text")

Reviewer: add types for app1 and app2
rename app1 to a and app2 to b

evaluated against an `Http[R,E,A,B]`, internally a private method `execute` will be called and an `HExit` value is
returned that can be resolved further. If `A` is not defined in the application it will fail with `None`.

`Http` domain provides several operators and constructors to model the application as per your use case.

## Creating an HTTP Application

These are some constructors to make HTTP applications.

### Http.succeed

Creates an HTTP application that always returns the same response and never fails.

```scala
  val app = Http.succeed(1)
```

### Http.fail

Creates an HTTP application that always fails with the given error.

```scala
  val app = Http.fail(new Error("Error_Message"))
  ```

Apart from these, you can also create an HTTP application from total and partial functions. These are some constructors
to create HTTP applications from total as well as partial functions.

### Http.collect

Http.Collect can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a `PartialFunction[A, B]`. In case an input is not defined
for the partial function, the application will return a `None` type error.

> ```scala

Reviewer: Http examples should not use request response we could use them in HttpApp examples

  }
```

### Http.collectZIO

Http.CollectZIO can be used to create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a partial function that returns a ZIO effect,
i.e `PartialFunction[A, ZIO[R, E, B]`. This constructor is used when the output is effectful.

```scala
  val app: Http[Any, Nothing, Request, Response] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => ZIO[Response.ok]
  }
```

### Http.fromFunction

Http.fromFunction can create an `Http[Any, Nothing, A, B]` from a function `f: A=>B`.

```scala
  val app: Http[Any, Nothing, Request, Response] = Http.fromFunction[Request](req => Response.text(req.url.path.toString))
```

### Http.fromFunctionZIO

Http.fromFunctionZIO can create a `Http[R, E, A, B]` from a function that returns a ZIO effect,
i.e `f: A => ZIO[R, E, B]`.

```scala
  val app: Http[Any, Nothing, Request, Response] = Http.fromFunction[Request](req => ZIO(Response.text(req.url.path.toString)))
```

Apart from these constructors, many constructors are special cases of the constructors explained above. Some of them
directly create an `HttpApp[R,E]` were as others create normal `Http[R,E,A,B]`. Kindly check out the examples for more
HTTP applications.

> ## More Operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Transforming Http Applications
```

```

### Http.response

Creates an HTTP application that always responds with the same `Response`.

```scala
  val app: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.response(Response.ok)
```

## Operators for HttpApp

These are some special operators for `HttpApps`.

### setMethod

Overwrites the method in the incoming request to the `HttpApp`

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  }
  val app = app1 setMethod (Method.POST)
```

### patch

Patches the response produced by the HTTP application using a `Patch`.

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  }
  val app = app1.patch(Patch.setStatus(Status.ACCEPTED))
```

### getBodyAsString

`getBodyAsString` extract the body of the response as a string and make it the output type.

```scala
  val app1: HttpApp[Any, Nothing] = Http.collect[Request] {
    case Method.GET -> !! / "text" => Response.text("Hello World!")
  }
  val app: Http[Any, Throwable, Request, String] = app1.getBodyAsString
```

> ## Converting an `Http` to `HttpApp`

Reviewer: Add section where you can use codec middleware for conversion

# Http Domain

`Http` is a functional domain that models HTTP applications using ZIO. It can work over any kind of input and output
types.

A `Http[-R, +E, -A, +B]` models a function from `A` to `ZIO[R, Option[E], B]`. When a value of type `A` is to be

> evaluated against an `Http[R,E,A,B]`, internally a private method `execute` will be called and an `HExit` value is

Reviewer 2: Don't include internal methods in doc.
